Chertt Product Direction 
Confidential & Proprietary 
This document contains confidential and proprietary information relating to Chertt and is 
shared only for the purpose of evaluating a potential development engagement. It is not a 
f
inal specification and does not create any contractual obligation. All intellectual property 
rights in the concepts, product structure, workflows, names, and materials described in this 
document are reserved and remain with Chertt and/or its originator unless expressly 
transferred by written agreement. Unauthorized use, disclosure, reproduction, or distribution 
is prohibited. 
Synopsis 
Chertt is a chat-first conversational app designed to help organizations run important day-to
day workflows through familiar channels such as WhatsApp, mobile app, and web. Rather 
than functioning as one generic software product, Chertt is to be developed as a modular 
platform with an initial plan for four focused solution areas: Chertt Business Toolkit for 
internal business operations, Chertt ChurchBase for church administration and member
facing workflows, Chertt Storefront for catalog, ordering, invoicing, payments, and stock
linked transactions, and Chertt Events for invitations, RSVP, and access management for 
events and controlled-entry environments. 
At its core, Chertt is built for organizations that need simple, mobile-friendly systems without 
the complexity of traditional enterprise tools. It is especially suited to environments where 
chat is already the natural way people communicate and get things done. By combining 
workflow automation, records, notifications, access control, and transaction support into one 
shared platform, Chertt aims to make operational processes more accessible, trackable, and 
efficient for businesses, churches, and community-driven organizations. 
Chertt Business Toolkit 
1. Smart documents – Able to draft a letter on the go and have Chertt put it on a 
letterhead paper and signed. The drafting can either be done by AI or self written. Also 
used to create instant invoices formatted and ready to be sent. That means there will 
be limited templates for letterheads and invoices or the platform can take a PDF 
letterhead or invoice and use as template. This might also be a two step process where 
staff unauthorised to sign can start the process but an authorised staff, on approval of 
the letter or invoice, has a signature applied. 
2. Requests and approvals – this will kind of run through the entire system as 
demonstrated in the point above and as will be required for when when staff requests 
for an expense to be made, supplies for their office, repairs, etc. 
3. Inventory management – Office store management. Store manager should be able to 
check if what’s being requested is available, set minimum reorder levels, approve 
release of a requested item, receive items into the store etc. 
4. Issue/facility reporting – Staff should be able to report problems with the facility that 
they notice or repair or replacement of things in their office space. Should be able to 
accommodate pictures/short videos being taken and sent to better describe the 
situation. This can also be applied in case of security reporting or incident reports on 
the premises. 
5. Polls, surveys and feedback – Self explanatory but will also be useful for approving 
graphics, communications copy/scripts, guest/user feedback etc. 
6. Petty cash/expense logging – This information is passed unto a spreadsheet that 
Accounts unit can use in preparation of their books. It should also have ability to send 
the pictures of receipts. 
7. Simple forms – Should be able to create forms as this will vary from organisation to 
organisation. 
8. Create appointments – integrate with calendar to set appointments 
9. FAQs 
10. Recall process documents or other general operations documents – payment receipts, 
vehicle documents etc. – be able to pull process documents to see how to handle a 
task etc. 
11. Staff onboarding – Basic HR staff onboarding with links and instructions to start off on 
the new job. 
12. Staff Directory – Ability to pull up details of other staff and initiate a call or chat from 
there. 
Chertt ChurchBase – This will include services from Business Toolkit and add the following 
1. Sunday Child check-in 
2. Giving 
3. Registration – for conferences, events etc. 
4. First timer capture and communications 
5. Prayer requests 
6. Special service/Pastoral Care requests 
Chertt StoreFront 
1. Catalog – Very limited catalogue of about 20 products 
2. Order capture – able to take orders and process total costs 
3. Invoicing & receipts – Issues invoices and/or receipts for transactions 
4. Payment Collection – Generate a payment link or link to a payment platform. (It will 
process payments directly once proper licensing is acquired) 
5. Simple stock tracking – Keep track of stock on the StoreFront 
6. Order management – Generate a code for delivery and keep customer abreast of order 
status. 
Chertt Events 
1. Registration – for conferences, events etc. 
2. Ticketing – paid and free ticket issuing 
3. Sending out Invitations and reminders 
4. Managing RSVP – manage reminders and other notifications for guest who will be 
present e.g. Table name or number, venue details, parking etc. 
5. QR/code Checkin of Guests – Access control at the venue 
Other spin-offs using the foundation of products listed above are Chertt for Schools 
(admission process, registrations, extra-curricular sign ups, Fees collection, student reports, 
Basic HR & Facility management), Chertt for Registrations (Gyms, Clubs etc. for sign up, access 
control, membership management, payments, FM, basic HR), Chertt for Communities (e.g. 
Estates or gated communities for access control, guest management, dues and utility 
payments, announcements, registrations and reports). 
Platform will have both AI mode and Chat mode all of this will be done in natural language 
models when in AI mode and voice. 